EDU-18163: FastStore flag useIsGiftFromOrderForm (#2623)
vtexdocs/dev-portal-content: docs/faststore/docs/developer-tools/use-is-gift-from-order-form.mdx

Correctly identifying gift items is important for showing the right prices, applying promotions, and displaying the correct messages to shoppers. The `useIsGiftFromOrderForm` flag controls how FastStore detects gift items in the cart:

| | `useIsGiftFromOrderForm: false` (default) | `useIsGiftFromOrderForm: true` |
|---|---|---|
| **Detection method** | Checks if `item.price === 0` | Reads `item.isGift` from the Order Form |
| **Best for** | Stores where gift items always have a zero price | Stores where gift items may have a non-zero price but are flagged in the Order Form |

When set to `true`, the `isGift` field is exposed on the `StoreOffer` GraphQL type and resolved from the VTEX Order Form. The cart SDK uses this value to separate gift items from regular items and calculate correct totals.

## Before you begin

This feature requires the latest version of FastStore packages. Ensure you update them before enabling the flag. Update the FastStore packages to the latest version by following these steps:

1. Open your store project in a code editor.
2. Open a terminal and run the following command to update the FastStore version:

```sh
yarn upgrade -L --scope @faststore
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Instructions

```

> ## Step 1: Enable `useIsGiftFromOrderForm`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1 - Enable `useIsGiftFromOrderForm`
```

1. Open your `discovery.config.js` file.
2. In the `experimental` object, set `useIsGiftFromOrderForm` to `true`.

```js discovery.config.js mark=1:3
...
experimental: {
  ...
  useIsGiftFromOrderForm: true,
}

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```js discovery.config.js mark=1:3
   ...
   experimental: {
     ...
     useIsGiftFromOrderForm: true,
   }
   ```
```

> ## Step 2: Validate gift items in the cart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2 - Validate gift items in the cart
```

Before deploying the new flag to your live store, test it locally, as it changes how gift items are detected across the entire cart.

In the terminal, run:

```sh
yarn dev
```

> ## Step 3: Validate gift items in the cart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 3 - Validate gift items in the cart
```

> With the local server running, test that gift items display correctly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the local server running, verify that gift items display correctly:
```

1. Add a product that is configured as a gift in the VTEX Order Form to your cart.
2. Open the minicart and confirm that:
   - The gift icon is displayed next to the item.
   - The item is labeled as free (for example, with a **Free** tag).
3. Proceed to checkout and verify that gift items are correctly excluded from the cart subtotal.

> If items are not displaying as gifts, check that the `isGift` property is being returned correctly in your VTEX Order Form and that your GraphQL queries include the `isGift` field on `StoreOffer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If items aren't displaying as gifts, check that the `isGift` property is being returned correctly in your VTEX Order Form and that your GraphQL queries include the `isGift` field on `StoreOffer`.
```

> ## Step 4: Deploy the changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 4 - Deploy the changes
```

Once you have validated the behavior locally, deploy the changes to your production store:

1. Commit the changes to your `discovery.config.js` file.
2. Push the changes to your repository's main branch.

> This triggers a WebOps build, and once it completes, the `useIsGiftFromOrderForm` flag will be active in your live store.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This triggers a [WebOps](https://developers.vtex.com/docs/guides/faststore/webops-dashboard) build. Once it completes, the `useIsGiftFromOrderForm` flag will be active in your live store.
```

| | `useIsGiftFromOrderForm: false` (default) | `useIsGiftFromOrderForm: true` |
|---|---|---|
| **Detection method** | Checks if `item.price === 0` | Reads `item.isGift` from the Order Form |
| **Best for** | Stores where gift items always have a zero price | Stores where gift items may have a non-zero price but are flagged in the Order Form |

When set to `true`, the `isGift` field is exposed on the `StoreOffer` GraphQL type and resolved from the VTEX Order Form. The cart SDK uses this value to separate gift items from regular items and calculate correct totals.

## Before you begin

This feature requires the latest version of FastStore packages. Ensure you update them before enabling the flag. Update the FastStore packages to the latest version by following these steps:

1. Open your store project in a code editor.
2. Open a terminal and run the following command to update the FastStore version:

```sh
yarn upgrade -L --scope @faststore
```
## Instructions

### Step 1 - Enable `useIsGiftFromOrderForm`

1. Open your `discovery.config.js` file.
2. In the `experimental` object, set `useIsGiftFromOrderForm` to `true`.

> ```js discovery.config.js mark=1:3

Author: ```suggestion
```js discovery.config.js
```
